Launching an HTTP server with spring boot is very easy.
How easy is it?
Just add a dependency called spring web.
In this lesson, you will launch an HTTP server.
The Spring Web dependency launches an HTTP server.
A dependency refers to a packaged library of files, i.e. jar files that your application can use.
Now the spring web dependency.
What it's going to do is bootstrap an HTTP server.
Now you can manage your project's dependencies inside of Palm XML.
Open your Palm XML file and there you will find two dependencies common to all spring good applications
the spring web dependency instruments, a spring boot application to launch an HTTP server.
So instead of a Google search type spring hops.
Spring Web dependency.
Actually correction type spring boot web dependency.
And go to the Central Maven repository.
The Central Maven repository contains all of the dependencies that we can leverage in a spring boot
application.
You're going to choose a dependency version that matches your spring boot up.
And once you do copy and paste this dependency inside of your palm XML file.
Like so.
Now, what I want you to do, actually, is remove the version number.
On top.
The version number for all spring boot starters is already specified.
This is a spring boot starter, so it's going to be version 2.6.7, just like these two.
And by virtue of just adding the spring web dependency, it's going to embed an HTTP server called Tomcat
into your Spring Boot app.
And the HTTP server is going to run on Port 8080.
So run your application by writing Maven.
Clean spring boot run.
And now we have an HTTP server called Tomcat listing on Port 8080.
Now let's revisit the client server model from the previous lesson.
The client server model is different when you're developing the application and the previous lesson.
The model portrays a client that makes a request via the internet.
An HTTP server is inside of a machine.
Inside of a computer.
On the other side of the world, it receives the request and it responds.
In our case, your browser and HTTP server are inside of the same computer.
So what should your IP address be?
120 7.0.0.1.
This is called a loopback address.
It connects the request to the computer that you're using.
The Loopback address 120 7.0.0.1 essentially loops the request back to your computer.
The request is made on point 8080.
So then your computer, upon receiving the request from your browser, forwards it to port 8080.
Your application's HTTP server is running on that port and it receives the request.
So now from your browser, what you're going to do is write 120 7.0.0.1 so that the request is routed
to your computer and then write 8080 because our app is listening on port 8080.
And we get the generic white label error page.
That's because the application's HTTP server receives the request.
But you didn't write any code that tells Spring Boot how to respond, so it sends back the default error
page.
Now before we fix this issue, I just want to emphasize that writing 120 7.0.0.1 has really annoying
local host translates to this address.
So instead we can write local host.
8080.
And in similar fashion, local host is going to route the request to the computer that you're using.
And in turn, your computer is going to forward the request to Port 88 where your application is listening,
and our application responds to the request by returning a white label error page.
Let's fix it.
The next step when we make a request on local host 8080 is for the HTTP server to send back a static
web page.
The static folder is where you should put static web contents.
Resources static.
So examples of things that you would put in the static folder are images, logos, CSS designs and static
HTML in order to send the client a static web page.
Add an indexed HTML file to the static folder.
Index html.
Now, whenever you want to write any HTML code, you have to start with a boilerplate template.
And as a spring boot developer, I don't expect you to know any HTML.
So what we'll do is go to the marketplace and look for the HTML boilerplate extension.
Let's try HTML5.
There you go.
Click install.
All right.
We may have to relaunch V's code for this to work, but it's worth a try.
I'm going to write HTML boilerplate, and it works.
Now you can go ahead and delete all of this.
Delete all of that.
And we're good to go.
All I want you to know is that metadata goes here and your visual elements go here.
We're not too concerned with metadata at the moment.
All we want to display is a header.
Each one.
That says Hello Spring.
So what each one is going to do is it's going to populate your Web page with a big header that reads
whatever string you provide.
And one thing I want to stress is that it's really important that you name your file indexed HTML when
Spring Boot is responding to an incoming request.
By default, it looks for the indexed HTML file.
So now what we can do is rerun maven spring boot to run.
Make that same request and the HTTP server responds with a big header that says Hello Spring.
The client sends a request to Port 8080.
The Springwood application's HTTP server.
Listening on that port receives the request.
Spring Boot looks for the indexed HTML file and responds with it.
The HTML file populates the browser with Hello Spring.
Now you can change the port that Tomcat runs on.
You can choose the port where your app should listen for requests.
And you recall that application DOT Properties is the file where you can configure the settings of your
application.
So here what we're going to do is we're going to say server dot port is equal to 1990.
To change the default port.
So now we're going to rerun our application.
And now try sending a request to Port 8080.
There is nothing listening on that port.
That's because the application's HTTP server is listing on Port 1990.
So you must send the request there.
All right.
To recap, you launched an HTTP server using spring boots.
First you added the spring web dependency.
The spring web dependency starts up an embedded HTTP server called Tomcat, and by default, the HTTP
server listens for requests on Port 8080.
Inside the Application Properties file, you configured the web server to listen on Port 1990.
Your browser and HTTP server live inside of the same machine.
So your full address is local host 1990, such that local host loops a browser's request to your machine
and then your machine upon receiving the request, forwards it to port 1990 where your spring boots
HTTP server happens to be listening.
Spring Boot looks through the index of the HTML file and responds with it.
The HTML we sent back populates the browser with a big header that says Hello Spring.